So what if you want to read a little more
about the discussion of the differences
between machinery and
traditional statistics.
Well I'm gonna give you a couple of
articles that you can go get and read.
One is a blog post by Larry Wasserman,
he's a very well known statistician.
And he wrote a blog post if you search,
called the Rise of the Machines.
It's a very good treatment
of the distinction, and
maybe a little bit of a rallying cry,
to the statistical community to embrace
machine learning a little bit better.
There was this very
celebrated statistician,
who sadly past away, named Leo Breiman.
And he wrote a tremendously
well-received paper called
Statistical Modeling: The Two Cultures,
and
much of my thinking really
derives from this paper.
It's very accessible, it's in
the Journal of Statistical Science.
And I would say his approach is quite
critical of traditional statistics,
or at least suggesting that traditional
statistics is lagging behind.
I give you this quote here where he says,
in this paper I will argue that the focus
of the statistical community on data
models has led to irrelevant theory,
kept statisticians from using
more suitable algorithmic models,
and prevented statisticians from
working on exciting new problems.
So he kinda takes his own
community to task quite a bit,
it's a very entertaining article.
And it's not quite as dry and
academic as most statistical
research papers.
And I just brought out this wonderful
quote that really stuck
with me from DR Cox.
DR Cox is another tremendously
celebrated statistician.
His Cox Proportional Hazards Model
is easily one of the top five
most-cited statistical papers.
And Dr. Cox was one of
the discussants of the paper, and
this quote really stuck with me.
Where he said, Professor Breiman
takes data as his starting point,
I would prefer to start with an issue,
a question or a scientific hypothesis,
although I would be surprised if this
were a real source of disagreement.
But I really like this comment because
I do think that really does get at, to
me I think of the things that I have the
most trouble with, with machine learning.
It's when you're having to both derive and
interrogate the hypothesis
with the same set of data.
I think to me that's
the hardest pill to swallow.
And then, the final article that you
might be interested in looking at
was an article by David Hand,
another great statistician.
And he says, Classifier technology and
the Illusion of Progress.
So, this one's a little bit more critical
of the machine learning approach and
I'll give you a quote from this.
It says, so that the apparent
superiority of more sophisticated
methods may be something of an illusion.
In particular, simple methods typically
yield performance almost as good
as more sophisticated methods, to the
extent that the difference in performance
may be swamped by other sources
of uncertainty that generally
are not considered in the classical
supervised classification paradigm.
So he's basically saying the effort
of building a complicated
machine learning algorithm
is often not worth it.
The increasing complexity
leads to marginal gains,
is one of the points that he's making.